Question - What are the differences between the WCF service and Web API service? When to choose one over the other?


The first important point is that we can use both WCF and ASP.NET Web API to develop restful services.
In fact, WCF comes first, and then ASP.NET Web API.
WCF (Windows Communication Foundation) is one of the choices available in the .NET Framework for developing both SOAP and REST services.
The problem with WCF is that a lot of configuration is required to turn a WCF service (SOAP service) into a REST service.
So the more natural choice for developing REST services is ASP.NET Web API.
In fact, ASP.NET Web API is specifically designed for this purpose i.e. for developing Restful Services.
WCF is more suitable for developing services that are transport/protocol independent. 
For example, our requirement is to build one service that is going to be consumed by 2 different clients – 
Let’s say, a Java client and a .NET client.
The Java client wants the transport protocol to be HTTP and the message format to be XML for interoperability,
whereas the .NET client expects the protocol to be TCP and the message format to be binary for performance.
For this scenario, WCF is the right choice.
What we need to do here is, create a single WCF service, and then configure 2 endpoints one for each client 
(i.e. one for the Java client and the other one for the .NET client).
There is nothing wrong to use WCF to develop RESTFUL services.
It’s just that it’s a bit more complex and configuration can be a headache.
So, if you are stuck with .NET Framework 3.5 or you have an existing SOAP service that you must support as well as you want to add
REST to reach more clients, then you need to go for WCF.
If you don’t have the limitation of .NET Framework 3.5 and you want to create a brand new restful service then go with ASP.NET Web API.

WCF
    It is a framework used for developing SOA (service-oriented applications). 
    WCF can only be consumed by clients, which can understand XML.
    WCF supports protocols like – HTTP, TCP, Named Pipes, etc.
ASP.NET Web API
    It is a framework that helps us to develop HTTP Based services i.e. Restful Services.
    Web API is an open-source platform.
    It supports most of the MVC features which keep Web API over WCF.