Question - What are HTTP verbs or HTTP methods?


In Restful services, the HTTP Verbs identify what type of operation, the service is going to be performed.

Let us understand what all HTTP Methods or Verbs are available.

GET Method:
    The GET HTTP Method is used to Retrieve the Data.
    The HTTP GET method requests a representation of the specified resource.
    Requests using GET should only be used to request data (they shouldn’t include data).
    For example, you want to search something like you want to get the list of employees, list of products, you want to retrieve a book by id, etc.
    So, whenever you are expecting some data from the server, you need to use GET HTTP Verb.
    In the case of the HTTP Get Method, the Web API may be expecting some data from the client,
    but the main purpose of the GET method is to fetch or retrieve data from the server.
    If you want to implement some kind of search functionality then the Web API may expect some data to filter out the results.
    In this case, the clients need to send the data.

POST Method:
    The POST request is used to make a new entry in the database.
    It is not only specific to a database, whenever you want to create a new resource in your application, then you need to use the POST method.
    
    What does it mean by adding a new Resource?
    It means if you want to add a new Employee, or you want to add a new product.
    So, here the main concept is not the database, the main concept is adding a new resource.

PUT Method:
    PUT is also one of the HTTP Verb.
    The PUT method is used to update all the properties of the current resource in the database.
    
    What does it mean? 
    For Example, we have a table called Product in our database.
    If we want to update all properties of a particular product (i.e. current resource) then we need to use PUT HTTP Request.
    So, whenever you want to update all the properties (column) of a resource (existing record in the database), then you need to use PUT Method.
    You cannot add a new resource using the PUT method.

PATCH Method:
    There are some situations where you don’t want to update all the properties of an existing resource instead you want to update a few of 
    the properties, then you need to use the PATCH method.
    So, the PATCH method is similar to the PUT method, but it is used to update a few properties of the current resource in the database.
    For example,
    if you want to update a few properties (columns) of an existing product then you need to use the PATCH method. 
    That means if your Product table contains 10 columns, and you want to update only four columns of an existing product,
    then you need to use the PATCH method.

DELETE Method:
    The DELETE method is used to delete the resource from the database.
    That means you are removing or deleting an existing entity from your database. 
    In modern applications, we use two concepts for delete.
    One is Soft Delete and another one is Hard Delete.

    Soft Delete:
    In your table, if you have some column like IsDeleted or IsActive, or something similar to this and you just want to update that column,
    then you cannot use Delete Method.
    In that case, you need to use the PATCH method.
    This is because you are not deleting the record from the database, you just update the record.
    
    Hard Delete:
    If you want to remove the existing entity from the table,
    then you need to use the DELETE method.
    For example,
    Delete an existing product from the Product table in the database, etc.