Question - Difference between Threads and Tasks? Advantages of Task over Threads?


Threads:
Threads represent the smallest unit of execution in a process.
Threads are managed by the operating system or the common language runtime (CLR).
Threads are created using the Thread class from the System.Threading namespace.
Thread myThread = new Thread(myMethod); 
Threads provide low-level control over the execution of code.
They can be foreground or background threads.
Developers need to manually handle synchronization using constructs like locks to avoid race conditions when multiple threads access shared resources.

Tasks:
Tasks are a higher-level abstraction introduced in the Task Parallel Library (TPL) in .NET.
They are built on top of threads and provide a more abstract and convenient way to work with parallelism.
Tasks are created using the Task class from the System.Threading.Tasks namespace.
Task myTask = Task.Run(() => MyMethod()); 
Tasks provide a higher-level abstraction that simplifies concurrent programming.
They can be controlled using methods like Wait, ContinueWith, and WhenAll.
Tasks automatically handle synchronization and are generally easier to work with in terms of managing shared resources.
They use the concept of continuations and the async/await pattern for asynchronous programming.


Advantages of Tasks over Threads:
Tasks provide a higher-level abstraction, making it easier to express parallelism and asynchronous operations without dealing with low-level details.
Tasks can be composed more easily using continuation tasks, which execute based on the completion of other tasks.
Tasks support cancellation through the use of cancellation tokens, making it simpler to cancel long-running operations.
Tasks provide improved error handling through the Task.Exception property and the AggregateException class, making it easier to handle exceptions in asynchronous code.
Tasks seamlessly integrate with asynchronous programming using the async/await pattern, making it more convenient to write asynchronous code.
The Task Parallel Library (TPL) can manage and optimize the underlying threads more efficiently than manually managing threads, potentially leading to better performance.
