Question - Difference between remote tracking branches and local tracking branches?


Tracking branches in Git are branches that "track" changes in another branch.
They come in two flavors:
remote tracking branches and local tracking branches.
remote tracking branches are references to the state of branches in a remote repository and are used for keeping track of changes in the remote.
Local tracking branches are branches in your local repository that track changes in a specific remote tracking branch,
allowing you to work on changes locally while staying in sync with the remote repository.

Remote Tracking Branches:
    Remote tracking branches are references to the state of branches in a remote repository.
    When you clone a remote repository, Git automatically creates remote tracking branches for each branch in the remote repository. 
    For example, if there is a branch named master in the remote repository, Git will create a remote tracking branch named origin/master.
    Remote tracking branches are read-only and automatically updated when you fetch changes from the remote repository.
    They help you keep track of changes in the remote repository without directly affecting your local branches.
    Example:
        # Fetch changes from the remote repository
        git fetch origin

        # View remote tracking branches
        git branch -r

Local Tracking Branches:
    Local tracking branches are branches in your local repository that track changes in a remote tracking branch.
    When you check out a remote tracking branch (e.g., origin/master),
    Git creates a local tracking branch (e.g., master) that is associated with the remote tracking branch.
    The local tracking branch is then set up to automatically pull changes from the remote tracking branch during a git pull.
    Local tracking branches are typically used for development, 
    where you want to work on changes in a local branch that corresponds to a specific remote branch.
    Example:
        # Check out a remote tracking branch, creating a local tracking branch
        git checkout -t origin/master

        # Pull changes from the remote tracking branch
        git pull