Question - How to undo the most recent commits in git?


To undo the most recent commits in Git, you can use the git reset or git revert commands.
The choice between them depends on whether you want to completely discard the commits or create new commits to reverse the changes.

Using git reset (Discarding Commits):
    If you want to completely discard the most recent commits and move the branch pointer backward, you can use git reset:
    
    git reset --hard HEAD~n
    
    Replace n with the number of commits you want to undo.
    For example, to undo the last three commits, you would use:
    git reset --hard HEAD~3
    
    Be cautious with --hard as it discards changes without creating backups.

Using git revert (Creating Reversal Commits):
    If you want to create new commits that reverse the changes introduced in the most recent commits, you can use git revert:
    
    git revert HEAD
    This creates a new commit that undoes the changes introduced in the last commit.
    
    If you want to revert multiple commits, you can specify a commit range:
    git revert HEAD~n..HEAD
    
    Replace n with the number of commits you want to revert.

Caution:
Resetting is Destructive:
    git reset --hard discards commits and uncommitted changes.
    Use it with caution, especially if the changes have been pushed to a remote repository.
Reverting is Safer:
    git revert is safer for shared branches because it doesn't rewrite history.
    It creates new commits that undo the changes, and you can safely push these changes.
Force Pushing:
    If you've already pushed the commits you want to undo, be cautious with force pushing (git push --force). 
    This rewrites the remote branch's history, which can cause issues for collaborators.

Choose the method that aligns with your workflow and collaboration practices.
If the commits are local and haven't been pushed, you might find git reset more straightforward. 
If the commits are already shared, consider using git revert to maintain a safer and more collaborative approach.