Question - What is the difference between git pull and git fetch?


git pull and git fetch are both Git commands used to update a local repository with changes from a remote repository.
However, they differ in how they update the local repository and handle changes.
git pull is a convenient command for quickly updating your local branch and merging changes from the remote,
while git fetch provides more control over the process, allowing you to review changes before merging them into your local branch.

git pull:
Functionality:
    git pull is a combination of two actions: 
    git fetch and git merge.
    It fetches changes from the remote repository and automatically merges them into the current local branch.
Usage:
    git pull is convenient when you want to update your local branch and incorporate changes from the remote repository in a single command.
Example:
    git pull origin master
Automatic Merge:
    git pull automatically performs a merge.
    If there are no conflicts, the changes are merged seamlessly.


git fetch:
Functionality:
    git fetch only fetches changes from the remote repository but does not automatically merge them into the local branch.
    It updates the remote tracking branches (e.g., origin/master) to reflect the changes in the remote repository.
Usage:
    After fetching changes using git fetch, you can inspect the changes before deciding to merge them into your local branch.
Example:
    git fetch origin
No Automatic Merge:
    git fetch does not automatically merge the changes into the local branch.
    This allows you to review the changes and decide when and how to integrate them.


Key Differences:
Automatic vs. Manual Merge:
    git pull automatically fetches and merges changes into the local branch.
    git fetch only fetches changes, and you need to decide when and how to merge them.
Control and Review:
    git pull provides less control and review of changes since the merge happens automatically.
    git fetch allows you to review changes before deciding to merge them, providing more control over the process.
Typical Use Cases:
    Use git pull when you want to quickly update your local branch with the latest changes from the remote and are not concerned with 
    reviewing changes before merging.
    Use git fetch when you want more control over the merging process and want to inspect changes before merging.